# high-dimensional binary classification
New scientific researches has focused on the problems of high dimensional data. In machine learning, this type of data proves to be be a real challenge in different situations. Throughout this work, we will focus on the support vector machine also known as SVM which is an algorithm initially defined for classification : the forecast of a binary qualitative variable (e.g., sick and non-sick groups). However, this approach is no longer efficient in the presence of large data sets with highly correlated
variables. In order to reduce the size of the dataset, to extract useful information and to predict the output appropriately, several regularizations of the SVM approach have been proposed in the literature. We will present in this work a new method called CCNSVM (Cluster Correlation Network Support Vector Machine by R.Kharoubi, K.Oualkacha and A.Mkhadri) which simultaneously estimates homogeneous groups of relevant predictors and penalized SVM coefficients. The CCN penalty
is a function of the Topological Overlap Matrix (TOM) whose entries measure the strength of connectivity between predictors. The resulting CCNSVM method penalty is a combination of CCN and the LASSO, Scad or MCP penalty. The approach we will discuss implements an efficient algorithm that alternates between the search for homogeneous groups (K-means) and the optimization of a penalized SVM loss function using majorization–minimization tricks and a coordinate descent algorithm. In the
end, we perform simulations following two scenarios and we also use a real data set available in R.
Then, we apply the CCNSVM model and compare its performance with that of the old methods. At the end of this comparison we will show that the new method favors sparsity while achieving the goal of binary classification.
